# Annual Accounting - English Version 1.7

# Copyright © Gaëtan Sencie 2023
# All rights reserved.

## Description

The "Annual Accounting" program is a simple and lightweight accounting software that provides a quick view of monthly money inflows and outflows.

### Features

- The software consists of a table covering the 12 months of the year in which it is possible to enter amounts for positive or negative integers, as well as numbers up to two decimal places. You can enter up to 2 x 30 amounts per month.

- Below each month, at the bottom of the two columns that compose them, you can leave a "text" comment. Simply click the "Add" button to update the table and get the total amount for each month.

- To know the total amount for the year, click the "Calculate Annual Total" button.

- You can save and load your tables with your different amounts either via the buttons on the left of the table or via the menu bar at the top of the window in the "File" tab. The table data is saved and loaded from files with the .JSON extension.

- The "Tools" tab allows you to choose either to export the table data to a "PDF" file or to an "EXCEL" file for users with a "Microsoft Office" license. Before exporting to Excel, you need to first save your table. Then click on "Export to Excel". You will be prompted to select the save you want to export. Once the save is selected, enter the name you want for the generated Excel file and then click on "Save". In this Excel file, there will be 2 tabs. The first one contains the exported table data, and the other contains the histogram for the same data.

- The "Commands" tab contains the list of keyboard shortcuts that can be used, and the "Help" tab contains a brief description of the program.

## Target Audience

The goal of this program is to be simple to use. This allows the program to be used by a wide audience, regardless of their accounting knowledge level. The options offered by this program are very basic but allow for a quick view of the overall money inflows and outflows.

The advantage of this program is that the "Export to Excel" option allows people with basic Excel knowledge to directly access all the data entered and generated by the table on the first Excel sheet called "Detailed Accounting".

This allows more experienced users to perform other tables or statistical studies based on the data already entered in the generated Excel sheet. Additionally, there is also a histogram generated on a second Excel sheet called "Graphical Accounting" for those who do not know how to create a table and want to get a graphical representation of their annual expenses.

## Installation (for Windows computer, 64-bit operating system, and x64 processor)

After downloading the executable file, double-click on the file to start the installation and run the program.

## Contact

For any questions or further assistance, you can contact me at the email address: app.sencie@gmail.com.

Thank you for using "Annual Accounting"!
